# CMPE 140 Assignment 7 & 8

CMPE 140 Lab group: Danielle Shen, Donie Ypon, Hamsika Pongubala, Sowmya Bijjala

Code covering assigments 7 & 8

## Assignment 7: Enhanced Single-cycle MIPS Processor
In this lab you will extend the initial design of the single-cycle MIPS processor (from Lab #5
and #6) to support more MIPS instructions. You are required to enhance the single-cycle MIPS
processor’s functionality by extending its instruction set (add, sub, and, or, slt,
lw, sw, beq, j, addi) to cover the following additional instructions: 

```
MULTU, MFHI, MFLO, JR, JAL, SLL, SLR.
```

Your design must be tested via both functional verification and FPGA validation. Schematics
of the initial MIPS design and the test program for your extended design are given in Attachment
1 and Attachment 2 respectively. As a reminder, machine code of a test programs should be
stored in the memory file named memfile.dat, which should be placed in your project directory.
This file should contain one 32-bit piece of machine code (in hex) per line (unused memory
space should be filled with zero’s), and you will have to re-synthesize and implement the entire
design any time changes are made to the machine code in order to properly program the FPGA on
the Basys3 board.

You should document your work professionally. In addition to descriptions and discussions,
your report should include schematics (generated by professional drawing tools such as
Microsoft Visio) for the enhanced processor micro architecture, tables for the control unit
decoders, the simulation log, testbench waveforms, and commented source code. Signal naming
must adhere with the list given in Assignment 5. Any microarchitecture changes (modification
and/or extension) to the initial design (figure and source code) must be in a different color
and clearly noted.

## Assignment 8
